This level of design makes the best use of donated funds.
While experts vary on the exact percentages,
over the lifetime of a typical building,
operational and maintenance costs can be four to six times the initial construction costs.
So the more efficient the design and construction,
the more long-term savings are realized for the organization.
For instance, an independent energy consultant recently calculated
that we could expect to see savings of over $1 million annually
from the energy efficiency measures incorporated into our project
as compared to a standard construction of similar facilities.
But you may be curious as to what energy and environmental features
were incorporated into the Warwick project to earn these awards and save funds.
These features covered multiple aspects of design.
They basically fall into five categories,
landscaping, rainwater control, lighting control,
energy efficiency, and water usage.
With respect to the first category, landscaping,
a control system checks rainfall and local weather conditions
to determine how much water is needed in each irrigation zone.
And drought-resistant native plants and trees also reduce water needs.
The second category is rainwater control.
All rainwater from the roof and building surfaces
is treated with green roofs,
buyer retention areas, permeable concrete paving,
underground sand filters, and stormwater plantages.
Yet a third category is lighting control.
Lighting sensors in perimeter window spaces are linked to a control system
that balance natural lighting with fluorescent lighting
while still permitting the occupant control as desired.
The fourth category is energy efficiency.
High efficiency HVAC equipment, boilers, and chillers were incorporated.
A geothermal well-feel consisting of some 120 wells
takes advantage of renewable energy to supplement building heating and cooling needs.
And with respect to our fifth category, water usage,
water is conserved in all the buildings by means of plumbing fixtures
that use lower volumes of water.
As we stated earlier, the operation and maintenance expense
is the greatest part of a building's total cost.
To the extent that we practice water, lighting, and energy conservation
in our individual rooms and workplaces,
to that extent, we can have a personal share
in realizing the full benefit, potential, and purpose
of these new facilities at Wacul & Worry.